Source: https://www.jenoptik.com/-/media/websitedocuments/optics/sensor/dlem-20-feature-story-military-technology-magazine-10-2016.pdf
Fetched: 2026-10-03

--- page 1 ---
Weapon Systems Feature      Communication   MILITARY TECHNOLOGY 10/2016
The release of the latest family member of Jenoptik’s diode laser 
rangefinder modules (DLEM), designated DLEM 20, addresses the 
trend for Size, Weight, Power (SWaP) and Cost optimised devices for 
today’s dismounted soldier and lightweight UAV applications. 
Less Weight to Carry and a Wider Reach 
Effective firing ranges of 1.5km and beyond with today’s rifles require 
the shooter to have very accurate information about the range to the target 
to increase the first hit probability. In the past dedicated handheld laser 
rangefinders (LRF) were often used. As LRF technology advanced over the 
last couple of years, the LRFs have been shrunk to the size of a match -
box and integrated weapon mounted solutions have been developed. 
The main advantage of weapon mounted solutions is that the sniper does 
not have to carry a rather heavy second piece of optics, but can use the 
 already present riflescope instead as the LRF is co-aligned with the rifle -
scope. Apart from devices that only provide the range, clip-on solutions 
which integrate other lasers (visible and infrared) for pointing and illumi -
nating as well as ballistic computing have been developed in line with the 
trend towards multi-functionality devices.
The new DLEM 20 is the ideal candidate for this kind of equipment as 
it is the most powerful sensor in its class weighing less than 33 grams. 
Its very small divergence also results in a very small laser spot on target 
– even at long distances. This enables the shooter to get range to target 
instead of to surrounding objects, which would lead to limited reliability of 
the range reading. Capable of handling shocks in excess of 1,500g, it can 
be mounted on any kind of rifle in service today and in the future. Derived 
from the field proven DLEM SR, of which thousands of units have been 
delivered worldwide, the new DLEM 20 pushes the performance limits fur-
ther. Out of a miniaturised package it can range man-sized targets out to 
2km and extended targets out to five kilometres.
Reduced Ammunition Cost and Increased First Hit 
Probability for Airburst Ammunition
In today’s asymmetric warfare when enemy forces operate from behind 
protective barriers the use of airburst ammunition against such targets in 
the form of 25m and 40mm grenades is becom -
ing more and more common. The “smart” airburst 
ammunition is programmed to detonate at a de -
fined time after leaving the barrel, which could for 
instance put the high explosive round just behind 
and above a brick wall where the target is hiding. 
An accurate and reliable range output from the 
LRF is essential for increasing first hit probabili -
ty and reducing potential collateral damage and 
for the fire control system to determine the right 
aiming point for the soldier to compensate for the 
trajectory of the grenade. That is the only way to 
ensure the ammunition detonates at the desired 
position and affects only the engaged target and 
thus providing more security for the task forces.
The DLEM 20 is a huge leap forward towards 
meeting these requirements as its accuracy has 
been increased to a fraction of a metre. Its high 
degree of accuracy is independent of the range 
and ensures reliable range output for distances of 
up to five kilometres. The use of sophisticated software algorithms ensures 
the accuracy is also maintained over the wide operational temperature 
range of -40°C to + 80°C as well as on targets with low and high reflectivity.
More Airtime and Increased Functionality for UAVs with Micro Gimbals
UAVs are becoming more and more popular for reconnaissance tasks 
when information is to be gathered from positions that a person cannot 
reach or that would involve an unnecessary risk to that person. Small UAVs 
weighing a few kilogrammes that can be transported easily and deployed 
very quickly are increasingly being equipped with stabilized 4-7in micro 
gimbals containing electro-optic (EO) payloads that provide more than just 
a day- or infrared-video feed. Geolocation of observed targets becomes 
possible when the position and the heading direction of the UAV in combi-
nation with the range to the target are known. Due to the size and weight 
limitations of these kinds of UAVs the battery capacity is the limiting fac -
tor of the achievable air time, which is desired to be as long as possible 
without increasing the size and weight. Therefore size, weight and power 
efficiency of the EO payload play an important role in maximizing the air 
time of any given UAV.
With a volume of less than 37ml, a very light weight and very low  power 
modes of operation the DLEM 20 addresses all the requirements for 
 maximum air time for small UAV applications. Waking up from the off state 
into measurement readiness takes less than 100ms, which even allows 
the device to be maintained in the off state for most of the time when it 
consumes no power. The continuous range output with up to 25 times 
per second simplifies software design for the gimbal when implementing 
target tracking or speed measuring functionality. The proven capability to 
range extended targets up to 5km underlines the DLEM 20 being the ideal 
rangefinder sensor for small, high-performance gimbals.
The DLEM 20 is based on the field proven product DLEM SR, which 
has been deployed on many high-powered weapon platforms, missile 
 launchers, UAVs, base camp protection, dazzler safety, space applications, 
etc. It is the worldwide smallest and lightest eye-safe class 1 LRF with a 
range capability of 2km against a man-size target and 5km at extended tar-
gets. It marks the first model of a new generation of DLEM laser rangefind-
ers which are currently 
undergoing a major re-
design in order to meet 
market needs. Hence, 
the substantially small-
er, lighter and more 
power efficient LRF 
modules with signifi -
cantly increased rang -
es are to be released in 
the near future.
Jenoptik’s Powerful DLEM 20 
Laser Rangefinder Pushes the Limits
(Photo: Wilcox Industries)
(Photo: US Army)
(Photo: DST Control)
(Photo: Jenoptik)
www.jenoptik.com
©2016 Mönch Verlagsgesellschaft mbH
