Source: https://www.jenoptik.us/products/lasers/laser-distance-sensors
Fetched: 2026-10-03

Laser range finder for distance measurement | Jenoptik USA 

 ColorRay 

 Logo: Jenoptik - More Light 

 Blog 

 Purchasing 

 Language 

 Choose language 

 Deutsch 

 English (Global) 

 Español 

 日本語 

 한국어 

 Choose country or region 

 Australia 

 Canada 

 España 

 Deutschland, Deutsch 

 India 

 International, English 

 Switzerland 

 中国, 中文 

 日本, 日本語 

 대한민국, 한국어 

 Products 

 back 

 Products 

 Imaging Solutions and Cameras 

 Laser and Laser Technology 

 LiDAR Technologies 

 Optics and Microoptics 

 Measurement and Inspection Solutions 

 Optoelectronics 

 Road safety 

 Civil security 

 Markets 

 back 

 Markets 

 Automotive 

 Data Communication 

 Defense and Security 

 Electronics and Information Technology 

 Industry and Mechanical Engineering 

 Life Science and Medical Technology 

 Semiconductor Equipment 

 Public Safety 

 About us 

 back 

 About us 

 Company profile 

 Values, Vision and Mission 

 Management 

 Innovation 

 Quality 

 Chronicle 

 Compliance & Risk Management 

 News 

 back 

 News 

 Press Releases 

 Social Media 

 Media Library 

 Events and Trade fairs 

 Sustainability 

 back 

 Sustainability 

 Jenoptik as enabler 

 Sustainability targets 

 Environment 

 Social 

 Governance 

 ESG ratings 

 Innovation 

 Investors 

 back 

 Investors 

 Jenoptik at a glance 

 Share 

 Reports and presentations 

 Adhoc releases and IR news 

 Annual General Meeting 

 Corporate Governance 

 Events 

 Contact Investor Relations 

 Careers 

 back 

 Careers 

 Working at Jenoptik 

 What we offer 

 Partners 

 Job offers 

 Events 

 Search 

 search 

 Close 

 NEW IN ELEM-DP 50E 

 We proudly presenting our new ELEM-DP 50E!

 Be excited to see more about it.

 More information 

 Prev 

 Next 

 Contact 

 Home 

 Products 

 Laser and Laser Technology 

 Laser Rangefinder 

 Recommend Mail Facebook LinkedIn 

 Laser range finder for accurate measurement and monitoring 

 With Jenoptik's laser rangefinders, you can measure distances and positions in the range of a few centimeters up to 60 kilometers - contactless, fast and accurate to the millimeter. 

 Our laser rangefinder measure the distance to objects precisely and quickly - even under the most difficult visual conditions. 

 Jenoptik's laser rangefinder provide fast and precise measurement data with a long range - even under difficult conditions. Even in poor visibility and extreme temperatures, they measure distances to detected targets accurately and reliably. This allows users to assess the situation immediately and respond to threats.

 Our laser rangefinders cover a wide range of distances and applications.

 Laser rangefinder at a glance

 Exactly: LDM Series

 Range up to 3 km
 Measuring frequency up to 40 kHz
 Measure to the millimetre

 More information 

 Fast: DLEM Series

 Range up to 20 km
 Low weight
 For ambient temperatures between -40 °C and +80 °C

 More information 

 Far: ELEM Series

 Range up to 60 km
 Measuring frequency up to 15 Hz
 Measuring accuracy up to 3 m

 More information 

 Laser Rangefinder from Jenoptik

 Jenoptik and Laser Rangefinder 

 Jenoptik has more than 50 years of experience in the field of rangefinders. Even though 50 years ago Jenoptik did not yet exist in its current form, rangefinder were already being built. To be more precise, a laser rangefinder module was already developed and built into a military application in the 1970s. By the end of the 1980s, more than 6,000 rangefinder had been produced and sold. Since then, Jenoptik has been constantly expanding its experience and knowledge and developing its rangefinder portfolio. 

 How accurate are the laser rangefinders? 

 Jenoptik's laser rangefinders impress with their long range of up to 60 kilometers and millimeter-level accuracy . This gives them an excellent power-to-size ratio. Thanks to their low weight, starting at 25 grams, the DLEM series laser rangefinders are extremely lightweight considering their sub-meter accuracy and measuring range of up to 20 kilometers. The ELEM series single-pulse laser rangefinders weigh from 160 grams, achieve distance measurements of up to 60 kilometers, and measure reliably with an accuracy less than 3 meters . The LDM series laser rangefinders even achieve millimeter-level accuracy . 

 Diode laser rangefinder, what is it? 

 The diode laser rangefinder modules (DLEM) from Jenoptik measure distances to targets precisely and with a measuring range of up to 20 kilometres. With their extremely compact design and low weight of 25 to 160 grams, the rangefinders in the DLEM family are the smallest and lightest measuring devices in their range class. The rangefinders are very efficient and consume very little energy in stand-by and operating mode. 

 Single pulse laser rangefinder, what is it? 

 With the solid-state laser rangefinder of the ELEM family, objects can be measured at a distance of up to 60 kilometres. The compact and robust laser rangefinder modules can be easily integrated into stationary and mobile systems. Our ELEMs work with 1.54 micrometre erbium glass solid-state lasers and are eye-safe measuring devices according to laser class 1M. The radiation of the rangefinder remains hidden from night vision devices. Due to their high repetition rate, the laser rangefinder reliably measure even objects with high speed. 

 How does a laser rangefinder work? 

 In single pulse laser distance measurement (ELEM), a laser rangefinder emits a short laser pulse whose start time is recorded. The laser pulse travels to the desired target and back to the starting point. The total travel time of the laser is measured with picosecond accuracy by the laser rangefinder. The distance is then calculated based on the known speed of light.

 In contrast, diode laser rangefinders (DLEM) send several thousand laser pulses. The echoes of all the individual laser pulses are superimposed and sophisticated software algorithms process the collected echoes. This allows the distance of hard targets to be measured, while soft targets are disregarded.

 What do I use a laser rangefinder for? 

 The diode laser rangefinder are commonly used in handheld surveillance systems, highly mobile fire control systems, high performance gimbal systems for UAVs and helicopters, and long range surveillance systems for border patrol.

 The single-pulse laser rangefinder are most commonly used in sensor pods for aircraft, long-range observation and border control systems, and remotely controlled defence systems.

 Do you have questions? Please contact us for more information. 

 Please select a category 

 Select 
 Germany 
 Japan 
 United States 

 Sales Laser Distance Sensors

 +49 174 7782236 

 +81 045 670-9140 

 +81 045 670-9141 

 North America

 +1 561 881 7400 

 Contact us 

 Personal Information

 Name * 

 Company 

 Country 

 Phone 

 E-mail * 

 Please do not fill in this field. 

 Your inquiry

 Message 

 I am a Jenoptik customer already. 

 CustomerNumber 

 I consent that JENOPTIK AG or the Jenoptik Group company responsible for my request may process my e-mail address and my other personal data entered in the contact form in order to contact me by e-mail, telephone or otherwise and send me information on products and services offered by the Jenoptik Group. I am entitled at any time to receive information on the personal data stored about me and I can request the rectification, erasure or blocking of individual personal data. I can withdraw this declaration of consent at any time without giving reasons. Besides, I took notice of the Data protection declaration on the contact form. * 

 * = mandatory field, please complete 

 Send 

 Legal Notice 

 GTC 

 Data protection information 

 Newsletter 

 Tracking preferences 

 click here for the youtube channel 

 click here for the youtube channel 

 click here for the LinkedIn channel 

 Color Scheme Options 

 Please choose your prefered color scheme option. 

 Automatic color change 

 Choose color theme 

 Random per session 

 Save and close
